README.md, before:

[![](https://godoc.org/github.com/cosmos/ethermint?status.svg)](http://godoc.org/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)  [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)

# Ethermint

__**WARNING:**__ Ethermint is under VERY ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT and should be treated as pre-alpha software. This means it is not meant to be run in production, its APIs are subject to change without warning and should not be relied upon, and it should not be used to hold any value. We will remove this warning when we have a release that is stable, secure, and properly tested.

### What is it?

`ethermint` will be an implementation of the EVM that runs on top of [`tendermint`](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint) consensus, a Proof of Stake system. This project has as its primary goals:

- [Hard Spoon](https://blog.cosmos.network/introducing-the-hard-spoon-4a9288d3f0df) enablement: This is the ability to take a token from the Ethereum mainnet and "spoon" (shift) the balances over to another network. This feature is intended to make it easy for applications that require more transactions than the Ethereum main chain can provide to move their code over to a compatible chain with much more capacity.
-  Web3 Compatibility: In order enable applications to be moved over to an ethermint chain existing tooling (i.e. web3 compatable clients) need to be able to interact with `ethermint`.

### Implementation Steps

- [x] Have a working implementation that can parse and validate the existing ETH Chain and persist it in a Tendermint store
- [ ] Benchmark this implementation to ensure performance
- [ ] Allow the Ethermint EVM to interact with other [Cosmos SDK modules](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/core/app3.md)
- [ ] Implement the Web3 APIs as a Cosmos Light Client for Ethermint
- [ ] Ethermint is a full Cosmos SDK application and can be deployed as it's own zone

### Building Ethermint

To build, execute the following commands:

```bash
# To build the binary and put the results in ./build
$ make tools deps build

# To build the project and install it in $GOBIN
$ make tools deps install
```

### Community

The following chat channels and forums are a great spot to ask questions about Ethermint:

- [Cosmos Riot Chat Channel](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+cosmos:matrix.org)
- Cosmos Forum [![Discourse status](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/forum.cosmos.network/status.svg)](https://forum.cosmos.network)

Commit message:

Add docker-compose and instructions to run

README.md, after:

[![](https://godoc.org/github.com/cosmos/ethermint?status.svg)](http://godoc.org/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)  [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/cosmos/ethermint)

# Ethermint

__**WARNING:**__ Ethermint is under VERY ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT and should be treated as pre-alpha software. This means it is not meant to be run in production, its APIs are subject to change without warning and should not be relied upon, and it should not be used to hold any value. We will remove this warning when we have a release that is stable, secure, and properly tested.

### What is it?

`ethermint` will be an implementation of the EVM that runs on top of [`tendermint`](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint) consensus, a Proof of Stake system. This project has as its primary goals:

- [Hard Spoon](https://blog.cosmos.network/introducing-the-hard-spoon-4a9288d3f0df) enablement: This is the ability to take a token from the Ethereum mainnet and "spoon" (shift) the balances over to another network. This feature is intended to make it easy for applications that require more transactions than the Ethereum main chain can provide to move their code over to a compatible chain with much more capacity.
-  Web3 Compatibility: In order enable applications to be moved over to an ethermint chain existing tooling (i.e. web3 compatable clients) need to be able to interact with `ethermint`.

### Implementation Steps

- [x] Have a working implementation that can parse and validate the existing ETH Chain and persist it in a Tendermint store
- [ ] Benchmark this implementation to ensure performance
- [ ] Allow the Ethermint EVM to interact with other [Cosmos SDK modules](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/core/app3.md)
- [ ] Implement the Web3 APIs as a Cosmos Light Client for Ethermint
- [ ] Ethermint is a full Cosmos SDK application and can be deployed as it's own zone

### Building Ethermint

To build, execute the following commands:

```bash
# To build the binary and put the results in ./build
$ make tools deps build

# To build the project and install it in $GOBIN
$ make tools deps install
```

### Using Ethermint to parse Mainnet Ethereum blocks

There is an included `docker-compose.yaml` file and a `data/blockchain` file that provide an easy way to run the demo of parsing Mainnet ethereum blocks. The dump in `data/` only includes up to block `97638`. To run this have [`docker-compose.yaml` installed](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) and run the following:

```
$ docker-compose up
```

### Community

The following chat channels and forums are a great spot to ask questions about Ethermint:

- [Cosmos Riot Chat Channel](https://riot.im/app/#/group/+cosmos:matrix.org)
- Cosmos Forum [![Discourse status](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/forum.cosmos.network/status.svg)](https://forum.cosmos.network)
